Since we come from a variety of different backgrounds, the organization is making a great effort to provide spiritual food and as many languages as possible.
So that in spite of our differences, we can all be one united family.
Our brothers and sisters, as speak Navajo, a Native American language, experience that unity, especially in October of last year.
That was the first time an assembly was held in their mother tongue.
The Navajo Nation is the largest reservation in the U.S.
It's made up of 27,000 square miles.
The reservation itself is bigger than 10 of the states in the U.S.
And also there's almost 300,000 members of the Navajo tribe.
When it comes to the language and the reservation, some people think that the language is a dying language
and that nobody speaks their native tongue anymore.
But really that's a myth because Navajo is spoken by everyone, young and old alike.
In fact, they teach it in school.
The Navajo people are very receptive to learning the truth.
We could see though that there's something missing.
We had excellent teaching in our meetings.
We had wonderful pioneers, need graders that moved out, working the area.
But something was missing.
And it took us a while to realize we needed to talk to people in their language.
We automatically assume because they speak English, we can talk to them about how are you doing their day-to-day life,
that they're getting everything, but they're not.
When we started using Navajo in the meetings and using our Navajo Bible and choking it out like we can even do it well,
it had more impact on the friends and the most eloquent English talks we could give.
To acknowledge the first Navajo baptize was in the 1950s. It was a sister.
It wasn't until the 90s where more effort was put forth to bring in more of the witnesses and to the reservation.
In 2011, the governing body gave directions to establish a remote translation office in Chinley, Arizona.
In March 2013, the first Navajo congregation was established.
And from that point on, we now have three additional congregations that have been formed.
And we have seven groups.
The last few years, we've assigned a number of special pioneers.
There are 12 of them now.
And two missionaries, to the reservation, to spread the good news to the Navajo people.
And they were directed to learn the language.
We usually, my wife and I get up early and we'll either listen to the Navajo Bible or we'll listen to a brochure on JW.org in the Navajo language.
And that really gets us prepared for speaking the language and reading the language to our neighbors.
In our congregation, we have 48 Bible studies and 150% meeting attendance.
With many Bible students attending meetings on a regular basis, they're going to assemblies and conventions.
Currently, we're helping a family of eight learn more about the Bible and their progressing well.
One of their relatives told them, you're losing your culture and you're learning a white man's religion.
And the young daughter spoke up and said, we're not losing our culture.
At the meetings, we're learning to write, read and speak Navajo.
And we use the Navajo Bible at all of our meetings and we love it.
And so what a joy it is to help people to make changes in their lives and they have a happier, fuller life because of what they're learning.
October 25th, 2014 was a very special day.
One that'll long be remembered because it was the first time Jehovah's Witnesses had an assembly all in the Navajo language.
To see the great increases taking place.
And then to be at that special occasion, when they all came together at one time, was just somewhat overwhelming.
I was smiling dear to year the whole time.
When I got on the stage, I had to be very careful because it was such an emotional time for me.
And to see the old ones that had struggled for years and years to help the work get off the ground in the Navajo field was very, very touching and heartwarming.
It really is an experience I will never forget in my life.
And so many different tribes also came that spoke their native tongues.
In fact, we had 26 total Native American tribes and they came from three countries, Canada, US and Mexico.
And many of them drove hours. We heard of one group that drove 22 hours in order to attend this special occasion.
Being here with the brothers and just an interchange of encouragement makes it really special for me.
It's so encouraging to be with other people that are learning or know Navajo and see him get to know Jehovah more.
I almost cried when I heard the first talk, when it was over, it was just beautiful. It's wonderful.
You get to see what Jehovah's Holy Spirit when it directs you in the right place, what it can accomplish.
All I could say to Jehovah is thank you, Jehovah, for letting me be here.
I feel so happy how much Jehovah has taken an interest in all his people, but today the native people.
This is the first time these Navajo brothers and sisters were able to hear the entire program in their own language
and to hear the Bible read in their language.
They've struggled for many years in the reservation and just off the reservation because they had to attend English meetings.
And they did wonderful Jehovah bless their beautiful efforts. And at this assembly, it was a paraded touch their hearts.
But the first time ever in my life, I didn't have to translate from English.
And to be able to hear it, it goes straight here. It doesn't stop here, it goes here.
I think the most exciting to me was looking at Psalm 68.4.
I appreciate our Navajo friends so much because they stuck with Jehovah all that time, even though they weren't understanding everything.
To form a love for Jehovah without a full understanding, that's an amazing thing. Our Navajo friends have been building a strong faith on crumbs.
And now they're getting fed spiritually. The good news brochure, the Jehovah's Wheel brochure, this is the richest spiritual food the Navajo friends have ever had in their life.
They've sat through every watchtower study, but they're hearing something in their language that's touching them.
I always imagined a new system, entered A, I saw it, and so it's really special, very special.
I see this as a small step. And Jehovah's organization soon, we're going to all learn one language, and that language is left.
I feel like Jehovah reads out and hugged the Navajo people. That's what it was like. He embraced them and said, I love you.
We pray Jehovah's continued blessing upon all the effort that's being put into preaching the good news to people, and all nations, tribes, and tongues, including the Navajo feel.